=pod

=head1 NAME

PDL::Expt::Philosophy - an explanation of why PDL::Expt exists

=head1 AUTHOR

David Mertens

=head1 REVISED

This document was last revised April 18, 2010.

=head1 It All Starts with an Idea

There you are happily working on your code, using PDL. You realize that
you use the same functionality a lot, so you pull the code out into a
separate function. You keep using this idea, over and over, so you put
it into a separate file that you can easily include. Maybe it's a .pdl
file that gets pulled in using L<PDL::Autoloader>, or maybe its a module
that you pull in by name using L<local::lib>. It's just a snippet of
code that seems to do its job. Suddenly it occurs to you: maybe somebody
else will find this function useful! You're not quite sure where to put
it in the PDL pantheon, but you're pretty sure that other people will
benefit. What do you do?

Historically, your options have included:

=over

=item 1. Petition to have the function added to the PDL base distribution.

This would involve downloading a recent version of the source, adding
your code to it, and generating a patch, which you would submit to the
project maintainers. You would need to include full documentation as
well as tests, and the location needs to be permanent. If you realize
later that your idea would be better suited under some other name, you
can't change it without potentially breaking other people's code. This
forces you too make lots of unchangeable decisions with code even if it
is still highly experimental.

=item 2. Release your code through your own CPAN distribution.

In order to do this, you would need a PAUSE account and you would need
to feel comfortable creating a CPAN distrubtion, which is more difficult
than it should be. Now you face the issue of publicizing your ideas.
You can try to publish to the PDL mailing lists, but chances are small
that anybody would download your module unless it contains some extremely
useful functionality that can't be obtained using a different module.
After all this hard work, your code languishes in relative obscurity.

=item 3. Email the PDL mailing list with your code and ask people to try it.

This will only work 

=back

Before the creation of PDL::Expt, you had three options. You could
(1) try to clean up the code, documentation and tests, and ask to have
it added to the base PDL distribution, (2) spam the pdl email lists with
you code attached and say, "Hey, look at my cool new module" and annoy
everybody not interested in that module, or (3) attempt to package the
module in its own CPAN distribution. For small ideas or functions that
you are just beginning to use, this is a huge pain.

=cut
